WI #615: Update `Invoice ID` with credit handling requirements (#828)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/invoiceid.md

Reviewer: > ### FOCUS Feature level
>
> * If the existence of a column is described as RECOMMENDED, then the feature level is designated as 'Recommended'.

An editorial change, which can be addressed during the Consistency review.

replace this:

> | Feature level   | Optional        |

with this:

> | Feature level   | Recommended      |

* InvoiceId MUST be null when the [*charge*](#glossary:charge) is not associated either with an invoice or with a pre-generated provisional invoice.
* InvoiceId MUST NOT be null when the *charge* is associated with either an issued invoice or a pre-generated provisional invoice.
* InvoiceId MAY be generated prior to an invoice being issued.

> * Where a pre-generated invoice or provisional invoice exists, it MUST be associated with the related *charge* and BillingaccountId.

Reviewer 2: Capitalize the A in BillingAccountId

> For credit handling the Invoice ID column adherts to the following requirements:

Reviewer 2: "adheres"

* Credits related to current billing period:

>   * InvoiceId MUST NOT be null and ChargeClass MUST be correction in the current *billing period*.

Reviewer 2: Split these requirements into separate bullets

> For credit handling the Invoice ID column adherts to the following requirements:
> * Credits related to current billing period:
>   * InvoiceId MUST NOT be null and ChargeClass MUST be correction in the current *billing period*.
> * Credits related to a previous billing period:
>   * InvoiceId MUST contain the Invoice Id related to the previous *billing period* where a credit issued in the current billing period relates to a previous *billing period* and ChargeClass MUST be *correction*.

Reviewer 3: I think you could condense down to the following two lines.  However, I'd really like @ahullah and @ijurica to give this a look.

```suggestion
* InvoiceId MUST NOT be null and ChargeClass MUST be "Correction" when a credit is issued related to the current *billing period*.
* InvoiceId MUST contain the invoice identifier related to the previous *billing period* when a credit is issued related to a previous *billing period*.
```

* InvoiceId MUST be null when the [*charge*](#glossary:charge) is not associated either with an invoice or with a pre-generated provisional invoice.
* InvoiceId MUST NOT be null when the *charge* is associated with either an issued invoice or a pre-generated provisional invoice.
* InvoiceId MAY be generated prior to an invoice being issued.
* Where a pre-generated invoice or provisional invoice exists, it MUST be associated with the related *charge* and BillingAccountId.

> For credit handling the Invoice ID column adheres to the following requirements:

Author: ```suggestion
For credit handling the Invoice ID column adheres to the following requirements:
* InvoiceId MUST NOT be null and ChargeClass MUST be "Correction" when a credit is issued related to the current *billing period*.
* InvoiceId MUST contain the invoice identifier related to the previous *billing period* when a credit is issued related to a previous *billing period*.
```

Author: adding Shawn's suggestion as I liked the simplification, but open to review suggestions

> * Credits related to current billing period:

Author: ```suggestion

```

>   * InvoiceId MUST NOT be null.

Author: ```suggestion

```

>   * ChargeClass MUST be correction in the current *billing period*.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> * Credits related to a previous billing period:

Author: ```suggestion

```

>   * InvoiceId MUST contain the Invoice Id related to the previous *billing period* where a credit issued in the current billing period relates to a previous *billing period*.

Author: ```suggestion

```

>   * ChargeClass MUST be *correction*.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> * Credits related to current billing period:
>   * InvoiceId MUST NOT be null.
>   * ChargeClass MUST be correction in the current *billing period*.
> * Credits related to a previous billing period:
>   * InvoiceId MUST contain the Invoice Id related to the previous *billing period* where a credit issued in the current billing period relates to a previous *billing period*.
>   * ChargeClass MUST be *correction*.

Author: ```suggestion
* InvoiceId MUST NOT be null and ChargeClass MUST be "Correction" when a credit is issued related to the current *billing period*.
* InvoiceId MUST contain the invoice identifier related to the previous *billing period* when a credit is issued related to a previous *billing period*.
```

Author: adding @shawnalpay suggestion simplifying the requirements for current and previous periods. I like the simplification. Open for comments and feedback.

> For credit handling the Invoice ID column adheres to the following requirements:
> * Credits related to current billing period:
>   * InvoiceId MUST NOT be null.
>   * ChargeClass MUST be correction in the current *billing period*.
> * Credits related to a previous billing period:
>   * InvoiceId MUST contain the Invoice Id related to the previous *billing period* where a credit issued in the current billing period relates to a previous *billing period*.
>   * ChargeClass MUST be *correction*.

Author: ```suggestion

```

Author: removing this section as per TF2 discussion and adding descriptive content about credit handle to supporting content with possible linkage to work item for future release on credits. corrections and refunds and a possible additional column for previous invoiceID

Reviewer 3: I'm not opposed, but is it truly best to make no credit declaration at all?  Here is one way of stating it, per a previous comment of mine that was resolved.

Also, if we're limiting to verbiage in supporting content, then please add it there in this PR.

```suggestion
* For credits related to the current *billing period*:
  * InvoiceId MUST NOT be null.
  * ChargeClass MUST be "Correction".
* InvoiceId MUST contain the invoice identifier related to the previous *billing period* for credits related to a previous *billing period*.
```

>   * ChargeClass MUST be *correction*.

Reviewer 3: @mike-finopsorg Given that you approved this PR, will you block if no action on this suggestion?

>   * ChargeClass MUST be *correction*.

Author: @mike-finopsorg i could not see your comments until you did your approval after we spoke yesterday. Very strange, but as we discussed this section was removed and added to supporting content.

>   * ChargeClass MUST be *correction*.

Reviewer 3: @thecloudman If you feel this suggestion has been handled elsewhere, please feel free to resolve it!

* InvoiceId MUST be null when the [*charge*](#glossary:charge) is not associated either with an invoice or with a pre-generated provisional invoice.
* InvoiceId MUST NOT be null when the *charge* is associated with either an issued invoice or a pre-generated provisional invoice.
* InvoiceId MAY be generated prior to an invoice being issued.

> * Where a pre-generated invoice or provisional invoice exists, it MUST be associated with the related *charge* and BillingAccountId.

Reviewer 2: I think we either start with the column name or "When" for conditional requirements. I prefer starting with the column name for consistency, but am fine either way.
```suggestion
* InvoiceId MUST be associated with the related *charge* and BillingAccountId when a pre-generated invoice or provisional invoice exists.
```

If "WHen" is preferred:
```suggestion
* When a pre-generated invoice or provisional invoice exists, it MUST be associated with the related *charge* and BillingAccountId.
```

Reviewer 3: Agree.  I prefer the first one.
